---
title: Device ordering proactively (Push)
description: Let schools and responsible bodies order before disruption is reported
date: 2020-12-10
related:
  items:
  - text: Prototype PR
    href: https://github.com/DFE-Digital/get-help-with-tech-prototype/pull/28
  - text: Trello
    href: https://trello.com/c/uk3JbjCx/1035-moving-to-push-devices-design-spike
---
{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}

We will begin to allow schools to proactively order devices, "pushing devices" to them. This means they can order their full allocation of laptops, tablets and routers before they report a closure or group of self-isolating children. This will be rolled out gradually, starting with schools in Tier 3 regions with the highest rates of Free School Meals (FSM).

We need to operate our current approach alongside push as we cannot invite all schools to proactively order at once. We need to stagger it to monitor take-up and manage stock levels. Any changes for push should be behind a school or organisation level feature flag.

For responsible bodies managing centrally, when they are switched to push all schools will be moved, so the trust or local authority does not need to handle a situation where some schools are push and some are not.

## Requesting devices for specific circumstances

Schools with push enabled do not need the request devices for specific circumstances feature.

Requesting devices for specific circumstances allows schools to get devices early for clinically extremely vulnerable (CEV) children who need them. Those requests, when successful, open up ordering for a couple of devices – those devices come from the school’s allocation.

With push, ordering will already be open. The school can immediately order any devices needed for CEV children. If their current provision does not cover all of their CEV needs, they can request an increased allocation through our existing query allocation process.

## Order pages

Schools with push will never see these order page variants:

- cannot order yet (they can always order)
- order for specific circumstances (feature disabled for these schools)
- cannot order as school reopened (ordering will not be closed for these schools)

If we need to close ordering for all schools (eg Spring half term) then we’d need to show a custom page – like we did for Christmas ordering.

### Responsible body managing centrally order page (in virtual cap)

In the [initial design of the responsible body order page](/rbs-ordering-for-groups-of-schools-iteration/#order-devices) we did not include the total number of devices they could order (ie ‘Ordered X of Y devices’). That number was difficult to deduce as it was the sum of allocations from only the schools reporting a closure or self-isolating group. Instead we opted to explain the numbers.

Now that the allocation is the sum of all their schools, it’s a lot simpler. We can put the text back in and remove the guidance.

{{ appFigure({ image: { file: "04-responsible-body-virtual-cap-order-page.png" } }) }}

### School order page

The note about ordering closing when schools reopen has been removed.

{{ appFigure({ image: { file: "06-school-order-page.png" } }) }}

## Schools list

For virtual caps [we split the schools list into tables for schools that can order, can order for specific circumstances and cannot order](/rbs-ordering-for-groups-of-schools-iteration/#schools-list).

These tables do not make sense with push. Instead use a table to highlight which schools need information.

{{ appFigure({ image: { file: "02-responsible-body-schools-list.png" } }) }}

## Support

We expect that support agents will turn proactive ordering on and off from the ‘Can they place orders?’ screen.

We might need some protection against enabling proactive ordering for a managed centrally school, to avoid the situation where a trust or local authority has some schools with proactive ordering, and some without. For example, the following design could be restricted to 3rd line support:

{{ appFigure({ image: { file: "support-can-they-place-orders.png" } }) }}

## Further design changes

Most of the remaining changes are small tweaks to the language used – changing context from ‘when you can order’ to ‘now you can order’.

These are shown on:

- school wizard pages
- school home page
- responsible body ‘Get laptops and tablets’ page
- responsible body school page

### Not included

Pages to communicate changes in when schools can order to existing users (for example a page explaining that we will enable proactive ordering for them soon, or a page telling them we have enabled it)


{% from "screenshots/macro.njk" import appScreenshots with context %}
{{ appScreenshots({
  items: [{
      text: "Responsible body: Get laptops and tablets",
      img: { src: "01-responsible-body-get-laptops-and-tablets.png" },
      caption: "Request for specific circumstances removed"
    }, {
      text: "Responsible body: Schools list",
      img: { src: "02-responsible-body-schools-list.png" },
      caption: "Separate schools list by ‘Ready to order’ and needs information before they can order, rather than order status"
    }, {
      text: "Responsible body: School page",
      img: { src: "03-responsible-body-school-page.png" },
      caption: "Change the text around ‘Can place orders?’ to not refer to reporting restrictions"
    }, {
      text: "Responsible body: Virtual cap order page",
      img: { src: "04-responsible-body-virtual-cap-order-page.png" },
      caption: "‘of X devices’ added to panel, guidance below panel removed"
    }, {
      text: "School: Home page",
      img: { src: "05-school-home-page.png" },
      caption: "Request for specific circumstances removed"
    }, {
      text: "School: Order page",
      img: { src: "06-school-order-page.png" },
      caption: "Note about ordering closing when schools reopen removed"
    }, {
      text: "School wizard: Welcome page",
      img: { src: "07-school-wizard-welcome.png" },
      caption: "Focusing on checking how many devices can be ordered, rather than viewing allocation"
    }, {
      text: "School wizard: TechSource page",
      img: { src: "08-school-wizard-techsource-page.png" },
      caption: "Removing note about ‘when devices are available’"
    }, {
      text: "School wizard: What next page",
      img: { src: "09-school-wizard-what-next-page.png" },
      caption: "Note that the school can order but must wait until their account is ready"
    }]
}) }}
